---
layout: post
title: Festival
---
It was Diwali and everybody was thrilled to bits. My brother and his friends had fought over not only who had spent more but also who had got a greater discount, my mother and grandmother had a silent battle over who cooked more (obviously, they?ll never accept this) and my dog, wise in his years, had given up protesting and had silently retreated into the quietest corner in the house. The anticipation had built up and was culminating in the hour-long?session of burning money. The battles smoldered on-?the kids were still trying to figure out who had the best crackers. After a year of hostel life, I was more pleased to be with my family than burning money, strangely, I felt. It was great! Although I could plainly see how little we all (us and the neighbors) had in common, we were happy to be in each other?s company, more or less.

Along came the construction worker and his family. I think he was a construction worker, but maybe he was a gardener or a vegetable vendor. Have you seen a poor family walk on a road? They all look the same. Especially the young families. The man walks ahead, pushing his hardy bicycle, with his wife following exactly two paces behind. She matches his speed, never looking up, never coming level to him, maintaining the distance. The baby sits on the bicycle seat, expressionless, save its pale yellow eyes are wide and constantly on the move. The baby has mucus running down and patches on its face, arising from an iron deficiency, but otherwise looks quite healthy. They never talk or look at each other. The worker?s family looked almost exactly the same. Except the baby had a stick in its hand and tied to the end of the stick was a small blue balloon. The big gift for Diwali. A not-too-frequent 5 rupees pleasure, like the sweet bun the father sometimes bought from the tea vendor. The balloon was bought even though there were better gifts disdainfully donated by strangers, their old shoes and broken toys. The<em > normal</em> babies in the neighborhood would probably instantly lose interest in such a balloon- it was tiny and not even helium-filled.
I didn?t notice any of this, obviously, and neither did anybody else. When they were reaching where we were bursting crackers, someone was about to light some big-ass array of bombs. With the benevolent kindness that the festival had instilled in him, he waited for the family to pass. I waited for them to move quickly, nobody wanted to be near this explosion when it happened, half the people had already closed their eyes in expectation.
But was the man walking slightly slower? The wife was still looking down and still exactly 2 paces behind, so I thought, maybe not.

The kind man waited.

Wait, the worker decidedly was slowing down. Ever so slightly. So was the wife. The baby stared?on. Then the terrible misery of the situation hit me- the poor man just wanted his baby to watch it happen. His wife had guessed that, and there was no need for him to tell her to slow down. We didn?t realize that because their restrained faces lacked of any sort of anticipation or emotion. I weakly tried to tell the man to light the damn cracker. To my utter despair he smilingly indicated he was waiting for the family to move on. They moved on and the thing was finally lit. It continued for more than a minute, but the family had turned on their way and didn?t come back to watch. They were probably satisfied with the sound, after all what more could they expect.

I just stood there and thought about it all, maybe it was thought warped by this incident, but who decides what is warped? Burning money is a bit of a guaranteed way for us to feel pleased with each other?s company. Children had slogged away in factories for that guarantee and a dog cowered with her puppies in the storm drain because of it.