---
layout: post
title: Shit I've Done
---

<div class="pre" >This is another get-to-know-me post. So don't read it unless you really have to.
<div class="pre" >There are 4 people in this absolutely true story. I'll call them Pony, CocaCola (let's shorten that to Cola),S and I.Pony and Cola were pretty good friends. Actually everyone found Cola irritating, so you might guess what a "pretty good" friendship means. S was a complete asshole, retard, moron and all that. That's all the characters introduced. Oh, and this happened when I was in the 10th grade.</div>
<div class="pre" >As I've said, I can be a pain. I used to do these irritating things like hiding your bag. Or stealing your stuff. Sometimes I used to get really creative but people tend not to notice that when you're being a total ass. So on this day I had kept all of Pony's stationery in his lunch box and he had spent the whole?morning looking for it. Something like that, I forget. Now, when you're in that I-am-Dennis-the-Menace mood you don't count on people giving it back to you. So I didn't count on Pony and Cola stealing my bag, S joining them later in the toilet and ,the?three?of them, placing it in a urinal and flushing. I'm pretty sure they actually did it. I don't know for sure as I didn't see any of it happening, all I saw was my bag lying wet on the ground in the afternoon sun. Till now this looks like a somewhat average-ish incident that might happen in someone's school life. Wait for it. The clue is in the title.
<div class="pre" >I went home thoroughly shocked and shaken. I took my dog for a walk to calm down. My dog pooped. He pooped out?a smooth, dark brown, sticky, stinky lump of poop. I looked at it for 5 seconds. I didn't really time it, so it might have been 5.77 seconds, but I'll?call it as?5 seconds. Anyway,?I looked at it for 5 seconds and ran back home,?almost as if?afraid someone might steal it. I found a half-litre packet of milk that had just been emptied. I?found a rubber band, a large leaf and a stick of wood. Within a couple of minutes I was back in my house with a milk packet full of fresh dog shit, safely tied up with a rubber band and placed in another plastic bag. About ten minutes later I had?2 more?similar plastic bags. (No, my dog didn't poop thrice. I found old stock lying around).
<div class="pre" >The next day <em >happened</em> to be our annual Sports Day. Pony and Cola hadn't brought any sort of baggage with them, they told me themselves. Apparently they had called each other up the?previous evening and had <em >come to the decision </em>of not getting anything whatsoever to school. (Who could blame them). Cola also?said he was sorry and gave some explanation. I didn't listen, but accepted his apology. I was slightly disappointed that they hadn't brought their bags, but I realized that it might be a blessing in disguise: I would be in deep shit myself if someone found out what I planned to do.? So I took this as a sign that you lose some and you get some. Realizing it would be easier if I had someone to help me, I confided to a friend. He was remarkably calm about it. When S was running a relay race, my friend discreetly picked up S' bag and came to where I was waiting. I quickly opened a compartment, removed a pack of GluconD in it and squeezed out all the shit onto the sweatshirt lying inside. I poured the GluconD all over the shit, threw that and all the plastic into the bag, zipped it and put it back where it was. I walked away quickly and spent the rest of the day in another part of the school premises. Just in case I gave myself away by grinning or something. It <em >happened </em>to be the last day of school and I never saw S again, except very briefly during my Board Exams.
<div class="pre" >I don't know whether I ought to be regretful or laugh about it all. (That's also why I've avoided emoticons here =P ). I've narrated this to a lot of friends and their reactions vary. One guy thought it was no big deal. Another thought I was crazy and looked at me strangely for days. I <em >think </em>most of them believed it to be true, but then again I can't be sure. This is one post whose comments I'd like to read, sadly I have no readers :D</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
