---
layout: post
title: Why I Invest
---
<h3 >The Puny Mind Of A Graham-Dodd Fanboy</h3><p >    <i > "'O brothers," I said, "who through a hundred thousand perils have reached the west, to this so little vigil of our senses that remains, do not choose to deny the experience of [what lies] behind the sun, of the world without human beings. Consider your seed [the race you spring from]: you were not made to live like brutes, but to follow virtue and knowledge.'" </i></p><p >    That's how my copy of <b >The Intelligent Investor</b>, by Benjamin Graham, ended. To me, that's what the book is about- not portfolio theory, not economics, but <i >philosophy</i>. It's about psychology, stoicism and common (but rare) sense.</p><p >    The last bit is from Dante's <i >Inferno</i> and is actually a part of Jazon Zweig's commentary on Graham's original text. I'm sure Graham would have approved. The value investing advocated by Graham not only requires tedious, hard work but also exacting control of your mind in the toughest of situations. Most people would describe it, more succintly, as <i >boring</i>. So why do it? Why not follow the herd and hope for the best? Especially seeing that there is a decent chance that the blind sheep/ mad dog approach may perform better than a beginner student of the Graham-Dodd school?    <br >    Because we're <b >men</b>, not brutes! We're <i >humans</i>, we have a history, a legacy, and ours is the path of knowledge and virtue!    <br >    But why money, in particular? Isn't money a dirty word? Won't people laugh at how boring I am?    <br >    For that, I'll quote Gus Fring from Breaking Bad: <i >"And a man, a man provides. And he does it even when he's not appreciated, or respected, or even loved. He simply bears up and he does it."</i>    <br >    You should invest. You need to. That's the way of the world and it's foolish to reject it. </p><p >    There are no grand concepts, mathematics or theories in the book. The most (seemingly) trivial assumptions are carefully sorted and examined. The book is actually for the base, beginner level of investor. I realized that a few chapters in, but I also realized that I found most of it profound. That, combined with Graham so painstakingly telling me to be very careful and methodical, made me then realize that I was being called a total idiot in the gentlest possible way. And it was true. Investing on rumors, advice from CNBC, or even technical analysis is idiotic when you haven't thought of the basic questions and groundwork described in the book. Yes, they all sometimes work, but when they fail, the result is usually spectacular.</p><p >    Most books about making money start of with the promise that you will make money. Not here. Graham says it like it is- he only promises that you can have a good chance of not <i >losing</i> a lot of money, and a decent chance of making <i >some</i> money. The latter possibility dependending on the effort you put in. There are no flowcharts or methodologies that Graham preaches. There are hazy guidelines, which seem to contradict each other. That, however, is the truth.</p><p >    This, I think, is congruent to the <i >unknowledge</i> that Nassim Taleb talks about- the stuff you don't know you don't know. Can you even account for that? Yes! It's called margin of safety. Coming back to philosophy, you realize that it's OK to not be sure. In fact, you should be comfortable in not knowing, and constantly being in an indefinite state, doubting and rechecking all your assumptions. With such a mindset, questioning things endlessly seems like a natural thing to do.</p><h3 >So What's The Big Deal About Philosophy?</h3><p > Philosophy, or ideas, leak into every part of your brain and make it their own. Every decision is an investment, with a corresponding correct course of action. Since this is value investment, you suddenly have both logical and emotional justification to things most people won't do. A night in the pub with people you don't enjoy becomes an obviously costly proposition, one you'll never make. Paying a lot of money to run a marathon becomes cheap, as you're essentially buying motivation to be healthy. A book that pervades you in this manner, is a bloody good book.  </p><hr >1. The quotes here may seem sexist or patriarchal, but that is obviously beside the point. It's just that "A man, or a woman, or anyone responsible, provides" doesn't have the ring of "A man provides".<br >2. In fact, the general tone is to stay away from complicated things that you only pretend to understand, or are hard for you to understand. There is no shame in it.

