---
layout: post
title: Blog Meta':' What's The Point of Blogging?
---
<p >I started blogging in 2010- because I thought I was a good writer. For the next two years or so, I proceeded to write characterless shit on it, utter shit which had few redeeming qualities, shit that would embarrass me if someone read it today. Yes, I could describe stuff nicely. The problem was I didn't have interesting things to describe. There are born artists and artists who are made. What both have in common is the devotion to their art and the unquenchable thirst to better themselves. I was no artist. The blog survived with my own hubris as its primary sustenance.</p><p >Then I met a girl.</p><p >It was the briefest of associations, and to call it that is an exaggerration. Notwithstanding, I listened to her talk and it was suddenly clear to me why my writing was total shit. It's hard to explain. To this day, I ask myself this question when I want to write something:</p><p ><i >How would the girl explain <b >this</b>?</i></p><p >The truthful answer always is that the girl would not explain this; this is too boring for her to explain. I have to ask myself another question:</p><p ><i >What if she really had to, perhaps at gunpoint? Perhaps when she's really idle and there's someone there with whom she can totally share anything?</i></p><p >Then, I start writing.</p><p >At the risk of this becoming something along the lines of all-women-are-goddesses, I will say one more thing. Only after meeting the girl did it occur to me that there is more to be gained by listening to a woman than pathetically plotting a scheme to get her to like you. It's quite enjoyable. There is <i >so much subtext</i>, and there are so many ways to convey the said subtext. I just listen and ask questions when something isn't quite clear to me. Except, they never give a straight answer- they've worked so hard to put all that information in the subtext, and it would be a shame for that effort to be in vain. I have to trick them to get answers. It's a full-time job to figure out what's really being said. Sometimes I get 'Eureka!' moments in my head; they are so delightful that I have to crack a smile or burst out laughing. As this happens even when nobody cracked a joke, they end up thinking I'm judging them somehow.</p><p >The trick to art, I realized, is to accurately understand an emotion and its effects, and somehow manage to reproduce it. I didn't want to write any more about women, but there is no escape. The thing about emotions and their effects- women seem to be inherently good at it. Characterizing an emotion is hard. The process of reproducing it feels like stripping. Stripping is extremely hard. Showing a scar that's usually covered by your shirt sleeve- easy. <i >Cool scar, bro.</i> Exposing your most private thoughts to scorn and ridicule- very hard. Someone could use that information to hurt you, forever. You hope someone will like it. If enough people like it, I suppose you are an artist.</p><p >To get enough people to like your act, you need to know <i >their</i> secrets. The artists who are born have a knack for seeing secrets hiding in plain sight. The plodding artist has to introspect, possibly for years. One day he will find a secret. It will be a part of the blueprint that actually defines human beings.</p><p >Coming back to the blog, all this happened. The expectation of brevity in writing overflowed into verbal communication. I realized less is more- I can't influence a person more than they want to be influenced, and more talking hardly helps. Earlier I thought that expressing emotion was an impediement, and moreover a weakness. I couldn't have been more wrong about emotion hindering communication. It is practically necessary. The more you want to influence, the more emotional you have to be, the deeper you have to hunt for a secret. Secondly, everybody is emotional. It's fairly easy to decode that. Therefore, everybody's safe from harm, because nobody is safe from harm. In the words of Tyrion Lannister, "Never forget what you are. The rest of the world will not. Wear it like armor, and it can never be used to hurt you.".</p><p >With a blog, you can look back on the person you were years ago. You realize that human memory is a misnomer- I've constantly underestimated my stupidity, forgotten about people who once mattered a lot, casually let lofty dreams and ideals decay, and embellished events with imagination, usually born out of lies I tell others. You have your own cobwebbed corner on the internet, away from the walled gardens, with complete freedome to evolve at your own way and pace. It's better than a diary because you get feedback. That's when you know you've hit upon a secret.</p><p ><hr >[1] - The girl also made writing a sisyphean task. The more words I write, the more likely it becomes something the girl would never talk about. In such cases I have to delete everything <i >after</i> I finish writing.</p><p >[2] - Perfect knowledge of history is as valuable as perfect prediction of the future. Read about <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janus" >Janus</a></p><p >[3] - This leads to overestimating the expected intelligence of others. You forget how hard it was for you to understand something.
